Basic Level (Questions 1-10)

Who directed the movie "Titanic"?
a) Steven Spielberg
b) James Cameron
c) Christopher Nolan
d) Quentin Tarantino
Correct Answer: b) James Cameron

Which animated movie features a lion cub named Simba?
a) Toy Story
b) The Lion King
c) Finding Nemo
d) Shrek
Correct Answer: b) The Lion King

Who played the character of Harry Potter in the film series?
a) Rupert Grint
b) Emma Watson
c) Daniel Radcliffe
d) Tom Felton
Correct Answer: c) Daniel Radcliffe

What is the name of the spaceship in the "Star Wars" saga piloted by Han Solo?
a) X-wing
b) Millennium Falcon
c) TIE fighter
d) Star Destroyer
Correct Answer: b) Millennium Falcon

Which Disney princess ate a poisoned apple?
a) Cinderella
b) Sleeping Beauty
c) Snow White
d) Ariel
Correct Answer: c) Snow White

Who directed the movie "E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial"?
a) George Lucas
b) Steven Spielberg
c) Robert Zemeckis
d) Francis Ford Coppola
Correct Answer: b) Steven Spielberg

What is the name of the fictional African country in the movie "Black Panther"?
a) Zamunda
b) Wakanda
c) Genovia
d) Sokovia
Correct Answer: b) Wakanda

Which actor played the role of Iron Man in the Marvel Cinematic Universe?
a) Chris Evans
b) Chris Hemsworth
c) Robert Downey Jr.
d) Mark Ruffalo
Correct Answer: c) Robert Downey Jr.

What is the name of the yellow creatures who speak gibberish in the "Despicable Me" franchise?
a) Smurfs
b) Trolls
c) Minions
d) Goblins
Correct Answer: c) Minions

Which classic movie features Dorothy Gale traveling to the Land of Oz?
a) Gone with the Wind
b) Casablanca
c) The Wizard of Oz
d) Singin' in the Rain
Correct Answer: c) The Wizard of Oz

Moderate Level (Questions 11-20)

What is the name of the fictional detective who lives at 221B Baker Street in London?
a) Hercule Poirot
b) Miss Marple
c) Sherlock Holmes
d) Philip Marlowe
Correct Answer: c) Sherlock Holmes (prominently featured in many films)

Which film won the Academy Award for Best Picture in 1994?
a) Pulp Fiction
b) Forrest Gump
c) The Shawshank Redemption
d) Schindler's List
Correct Answer: b) Forrest Gump

Who directed the neo-noir crime film "Pulp Fiction"?
a) Martin Scorsese
b) Quentin Tarantino
c) Francis Ford Coppola
d) Ridley Scott
Correct Answer: b) Quentin Tarantino

What is the name of the island that houses dinosaurs in the "Jurassic Park" movies?
a) Isla Sorna
b) Isla Nublar
c) Isla Muerta
d) Isla Perdida
Correct Answer: b) Isla Nublar

Which actress won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her role in "The Silence of the Lambs"?
a) Meryl Streep
b) Jodie Foster
c) Susan Sarandon
d) Emma Thompson
Correct Answer: b) Jodie Foster

What is the name of the futuristic motorcycle ridden by Kaneda in the animated film "Akira"?
a) Light Cycle
b) Batcycle
c) Kaneda's Bike
d) Mach 5
Correct Answer: c) Kaneda's Bike

Which movie features the iconic line, "Here's Johnny!"?
a) Psycho
b) The Shining
c) Misery
d) Carrie
Correct Answer: b) The Shining

Who composed the memorable score for the "Pirates of the Caribbean" film series?
a) Hans Zimmer
b) John Williams
c) Ennio Morricone
d) Klaus Badelt
Correct Answer: d) Klaus Badelt (with later themes by Hans Zimmer)

What is the name of the gladiator portrayed by Russell Crowe in the film "Gladiator"?
a) Spartacus
b) Maximus Decimus Meridius
c) Commodus
d) Marcus Aurelius
Correct Answer: b) Maximus Decimus Meridius

Which science fiction film features a corporation called Omni Consumer Products (OCP)?
a) Blade Runner
b) Total Recall
c) RoboCop
d) Starship Troopers
Correct Answer: c) RoboCop

Advanced Level (Questions 21-30)

What is the cinematic technique popularized by director Sergei Eisenstein, involving the juxtaposition of shots to create a new meaning?
a) Long Take
b) Montage
c) Mise-en-scène
d) Deep Focus
Correct Answer: b) Montage

Which film is considered a seminal work of Italian neorealism, directed by Vittorio De Sica and featuring non-professional actors?
a) La Dolce Vita
b) 8½
c) Bicycle Thieves
d) Nights of Cabiria
Correct Answer: c) Bicycle Thieves

What is the name of the MacGuffin in Alfred Hitchcock's film "Psycho"?
a) The Bates Motel
b) Marion Crane's money
c) Norman Bates's mother
d) The shower scene
Correct Answer: b) Marion Crane's money

Which director is known for his use of long takes and meticulously choreographed scenes, as seen in films like "Goodfellas" and "Casino"?
a) Francis Ford Coppola
b) Martin Scorsese
c) Brian De Palma
d) Sidney Lumet
Correct Answer: b) Martin Scorsese

What is the name of the experimental film by Andy Warhol that consists of a static shot of the Empire State Building for eight hours?
a) Sleep
b) Empire
c) Blow Job
d) Chelsea Girls
Correct Answer: b) Empire

Which film noir classic, directed by Billy Wilder, features Fred MacMurray as an insurance salesman who plots a murder with a seductive housewife?
a) The Maltese Falcon
b) Double Indemnity
c) Laura
d) The Big Sleep
Correct Answer: b) Double Indemnity

What is the name of the nonlinear narrative structure famously employed in Quentin Tarantino's "Reservoir Dogs"?
a) Circular Narrative
b) In Media Res
c) Achronological Storytelling
d) Stream of Consciousness
Correct Answer: c) Achronological Storytelling

Which influential French New Wave film, directed by Jean-Luc Godard, stars Jean-Paul Belmondo and Jean Seberg?
a) The 400 Blows
b) Breathless (À bout de souffle)
c) Jules and Jim
d) Hiroshima Mon Amour
Correct Answer: b) Breathless (À bout de souffle)

What is the Kuleshov effect in filmmaking?
a) The phenomenon where audiences derive different meanings from the same shot depending on the shots that precede and follow it.
b) A rapid sequence of short shots used to create a sense of excitement or disorientation.
c) A shot that captures a subject from a great distance, emphasizing the environment.
d) The use of natural sound recorded on location to enhance realism.
Correct Answer: a) The phenomenon where audiences derive different meanings from the same shot depending on the shots that precede and follow it.

Which allegorical science fiction film, directed by Andrei Tarkovsky, is set on a mysterious planet and explores themes of human desire and the subconscious?
a) Solaris
b) Stalker
c) Mirror
d) Andrei Rublev
Correct Answer: a) Solaris